Thing 1

What they tell us: Markets need to be free.

why? When the government interferes to dictate what market participants can or cannot do, resources cannot flow to 
their most efficient use. Hence, if people cannot do the things that they find most profitable, they lose the 
incentive to invest and innovate.

What they don’t tell you: The free market doesn’t exist. Every market has some rules and boundaries that restrict 
freedom of choice. A market looks free only because we so unconditionally accept its underlying restrictions that we
fail to see them.

How ‘free’ a market is cannot be objectively defined. It is a political definition. The usual claim by free-market 
economists that they are trying to defend the market from politically motivated interference by the government is 
false. Government is always involved and those free-marketeers are as politically motivated as anyone. 

Example:

Labour ought to be free: In 1819 new legislation to regulate child labour, the Cotton Factories Regulation Act, was 
tabled in the British Parliament. The proposed regulation was incredibly ‘light touch’ by modern standards. It would
ban the employment of young children – that is, those under the age of nine. Older children (aged between ten and 
sixteen) would still be allowed to work, but with their working hours restricted to twelve per day. The new rules 
applied only to cotton factories, which were recognized to be exceptionally hazardous to workers’ health.

The proposal caused huge controversy. Opponents saw it as undermining the sanctity of freedom of contract and thus 
destroying the very foundation of the free market. In debating this legislation, some members of the House of Lords 
objected to it on the grounds that ‘labour ought to be free’. Their argument said: the children want (and need) to 
work, and the factory owners want to employ them; what is the problem? 

We don’t have to go back two centuries to see regulations we take for granted that were seriously challenged as 
undermining the free market, when first introduced. When environmental regulations (e.g., regulations on car and 
factory emissions) appeared a few decades ago, they were opposed by many as serious infringements on our freedom to 
choose. Their opponents asked: if people want to drive in more polluting cars or if factories find more polluting 
production methods more profitable, why should the government prevent them from making such choices? Today, most 
people accept these regulations as ‘natural’.

If the same market can be perceived to have varying degrees of freedom by different people, there is really no 
objective way to define how free that market is. In other words, the free market is an illusion. If some markets 
look free, it is only because we so totally accept the regulations that are propping them up that they become 
invisible.

We accept the legitimacy of certain regulations so totally that we don’t see them. More carefully examined, markets 
are revealed to be propped up by rules – and many of them.

To begin with, there is a huge range of restrictions on what can be traded; and not just bans on ‘obvious’ things 
such as narcotic drugs or human organs. Electoral votes, government jobs and legal decisions are not for sale, at 
least openly, in modern economies, although they were in most countries in the past. University places may not 
usually be sold, although in some nations money can buy them – either through (illegally) paying the selectors or 
(legally) donating money to the university.

There are also restrictions on who can participate in markets. Child labour regulation now bans the entry of children
into the labour market. Licences are required for professions that have significant impacts on human life, such as 
medical doctors or lawyers (which may sometimes be issued by professional associations rather than by the government).

Many countries allow only companies with more than a certain amount of capital to set up banks. Even the stock market,
whose under-regulation was the cause of the 2008 global recession, has regulations on who can trade. You can’t just 
turn up in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) with a bag of shares and sell them. Companies must fulfil listing 
requirements, meeting stringent auditing standards over a certain number of years, before they can offer their shares
for trading. Trading of shares is only conducted by licensed brokers and traders.

Is free trade fair?

We see a regulation when we don’t endorse the moral values behind it. The nineteenth-century high-tariff restriction
on free trade by the US federal government outraged slave-owners, who at the same time saw nothing wrong with trading
people in a free market. To those who believed that people can be owned, banning trade in slaves was objectionable 
in the same way as restricting trade in manufactured goods. 

This clash of values also lies behind the contemporary debate on free trade vs. fair trade. Many Americans believe 
that China is engaged in international trade that may be free but is not fair. In their view, by paying workers 
unacceptably low wages and making them work in inhumane conditions, China competes unfairly.

The Chinese, in turn, can riposte that it is unacceptable that rich countries, while advocating free trade, try to 
impose artificial barriers to China’s exports by attempting to restrict the import of ‘sweatshop’ products. They find
it unjust to be prevented from exploiting the only resource they have in greatest abundance – cheap labour.

Of course, the difficulty here is that there is no objective way to define ‘unacceptably low wages’ or ‘inhumane 
working conditions’. With the huge international gaps that exist in the level of economic development and living 
standards, it is natural that what is a starvation wage in the US is a handsome wage in China (the average being 10 
per cent that of the US) and a fortune in India (the average being 2 per cent that of the US).

Thus seen, the debate about fair trade is essentially about moral values and political decisions, and not economics 
in the usual sense. Even though it is about an economic issue, it is not something economists with their technical 
tool kits are particularly well equipped to rule on.

All this does not mean that we need to take a relativist position and fail to criticize anyone because anything goes. 
We can (and I do) have a view on the  acceptability of prevailing labour standards in China (or any other country, 
for that matter) and try to do something about it, without believing that those who have a different view are wrong 
in some absolute sense. Even though China cannot afford American wages or Swedish working conditions, it certainly 
can improve the wages and the working conditions of its workers. Indeed, many Chinese don’t accept the prevailing 
conditions and demand tougher regulations. But economic theory (at least free-market economics) cannot tell us what 
the ‘right’ wages and working conditions should be in China.

what is a necessary state intervention consistent with free-market capitalism is really a matter of opinion. There 
is no scientifically defined boundary for free market.

If there is nothing sacred about any particular market boundaries that happen to exist, an attempt to change them is
as legitimate as the attempt to defend them. Indeed, the history of capitalism has been a constant struggle over the
boundaries of the market.

A lot of the things that are outside the market today have been removed by political decision, rather than the market
process itself – human beings, government jobs, electoral votes, legal decisions, university places or uncertified 
medicines.

Furthermore, reflecting its political nature, the process of re-drawing the boundaries of the market has sometimes 
been marked by violent conflicts. The Americans fought a civil war over free trade in slaves (although free trade in
goods – or the tariffs issue – was also an important issue). The British government fought the Opium War against 
China to realize a free trade in opium. Regulations on free market in child labour were implemented only because of
the struggles by social reformers.

Recognizing that the boundaries of the market are ambiguous and cannot be determined in an objective way lets us 
realize that economics is not a science like physics or chemistry, but a political exercise. Free-market economists 
may want you to believe that the correct boundaries of the market can be scientifically determined, but this is 
incorrect. If the boundaries of what you are studying cannot be scientifically determined, what you are doing is not
a science.

Thus seen, opposing a new regulation is saying that the status quo, however unjust from some people’s point of view,
should not be changed. Saying that an existing regulation should be abolished is saying that the domain of the market
should be expanded, which means that those who have money should be given more power in that area, as the market is 
run on one-dollar-one-vote principle.

So, when free-market economists say that a certain regulation should not be introduced because it would restrict the
‘freedom’ of a certain market, they are merely expressing a political opinion that they reject the rights that are 
to be defended by the proposed law. Their ideological cloak is to pretend that their politics is not really 
political, but rather is an objective economic truth, while other people’s politics is political. However, they are 
as politically motivated as their opponents.

Thing 2 Companies should not be run in the interest of their owners

what they tell you

Shareholders own companies. Therefore, companies should be run in their interests. It is not simply a moral argument.
The shareholders are not guaranteed any fixed payments, unlike the employees (who have fixed wages), the suppliers (who are paid specific prices), the lending banks (who get paid fixed interest rates), and others involved in the business. Shareholders’ incomes vary according to the company’s performance, giving them the greatest incentive to ensure the company performs well.

If the company goes bankrupt, the shareholders lose everything, whereas other ‘stakeholders’ get at least something. Thus, shareholders bear the risk that others involved in the company do not, incentivizing them to maximize company performance. 

What they don’t tell you

Shareholders may be the owners of corporations but, as the most mobile of the ‘stakeholders’, they often care the least about the long-term future of the company (unless they are so big that they cannot really sell their shares without seriously disrupting the business). Consequently, shareholders, especially but not exclusively the smaller ones, prefer corporate strategies that maximize short-term profits, usually at the cost of long-term investments, and maximize the dividends from those profits, which even further weakens the long-term prospects of the company by reducing the amount of retained profit that can be used for re-investment. Running the company for the shareholders often reduces its long-term growth potential.

Karl Marx defends capitalism

You have probably noticed that many company names in the English- speaking world come with the letter L – PLC, LLC, Ltd, etc. The letter L in these acronyms stands for ‘limited’, short for ‘limited liability’ – public limited company (PLC), limited liability company (LLC) or simply limited company (Ltd). Limited liability means that investors in the company will lose only what they have invested (their ‘shares’), should it go bankrupt.

However, you may not have realized that the L word, that is, limited liability, is what has made modern capitalism possible. Today, this form of organizing a business enterprise is taken for granted, but it wasn’t always like that.

Before the invention of the limited liability company in sixteenth-century Europe – or the joint-stock company, as it was known in its early days – businessmen had to risk everything when they started a venture. When I say everything, I really mean everything – not just personal property (unlimited liability  meant  that  a  failed  businessman  had  to  sell  all  his  personal properties to repay all the debts) but also personal freedom (they could go to a debtors’ prison, should they fail to honour their debts). Given this, it is almost a miracle that anyone was willing to start a business at all.

Unfortunately, even after the invention of limited liability, it was in practice very difficult to use it until the mid nineteenth century – you needed a royal charter in order to set up a limited liability company (or a government charter in a republic).

It was believed that those who were managing a limited liability company without owning it 100 per cent would take excessive risks, because part of the money they were risking was not their own. At the same time, the non-managing investors in a limited liability company would also become less vigilant in monitoring the managers, as their risks were capped (at their respective investments).

Therefore, countries typically granted limited liability only to exceptionally large and risky ventures that were deemed to be of national interest, such as the Dutch East India Company set up in 1602 (and its arch- rival, the  British East India Company) and the notorious South Sea Company of Britain, the speculative bubble surrounding which in 1721 gave limited liability companies a bad name for generations.

By the mid nineteenth century, however, with the emergence of large- scale industries such as railways, steel and chemicals, the need for limited liability was felt increasingly acutely. Very few people had a big enough fortune to start a steel mill or a railway singlehandedly, so, beginning with Sweden in 1844 and followed by Britain in 1856, the countries of Western Europe  and North America  made  limited liability generally available – mostly in the 1860s and 70s.

However, the suspicion about limited liability lingered on. Even as late as the  late  nineteenth century, a few decades after the introduction of generalized limited liability, small businessmen in Britain ‘who, being actively  in charge of a business as well as its owner, sought to limit responsibility for its debts by the device of incorporation [limited liability]’ were frowned upon, according to an influential history of Western European entrepreneurship.

Interestingly, one of the first people who realized the significance of limited liability for the development of capitalism was Karl Marx, the supposed arch-enemy of capitalism. Unlike many of his contemporary free- market advocates (and Adam Smith before them), who opposed limited liability, Marx understood how it would enable the mobilization of large sums of capital  that were needed for the newly emerging heavy and chemical industries by reducing the risk for individual investors. Writing in 1865, when the stock market was still very much a side-show in the capitalist drama, Marx had the foresight to call the joint-stock company ‘capitalist  production  in  its  highest development’. Like his free-market opponents, Marx was aware of, and criticized, the tendency for limited
liability to encourage excessive risk-taking by managers. 
