{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f5\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue24;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue27;
\red254\green246\blue217;\red251\green226\blue224;\red227\green236\blue254;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;
\cssrgb\c99608\c96863\c87843;\cssrgb\c98824\c90980\c90196;\cssrgb\c90980\c94118\c99608;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c5098;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww33100\viewh16740\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\parhyphenfactor20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Implement Load Balancing on Compute Engine: Challenge Lab\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\fs60 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 Overview\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf4 In a challenge lab you\'92re given a scenario and a set of tasks. Instead of following step-by-step instructions, you will use the skills learned from the labs in the course to figure out how to complete the tasks on your own! An automated scoring system (shown on this page) will provide feedback on whether you have completed your tasks correctly.\
When you take a challenge lab, you will not be taught new Google Cloud concepts. You are expected to extend your learned skills, like changing default values and reading and researching error messages to fix your own mistakes.\
To score 100% you must successfully complete all tasks within the time period!\
This lab is recommended for students who have enrolled in the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/648"}}{\fldrslt Implement Load Balancing on Compute Engine}}\'a0skill badge. Are you ready for the challenge?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs48 \cf4 Topics tested\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs32 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create an instance.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create an HTTP load balancer in front of two web servers.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs60 \cf4 \cb3 Challenge scenario\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf4 You have started a new role as a Junior Cloud Engineer for Jooli, Inc. You are expected to help manage the infrastructure at Jooli. Common tasks include provisioning resources for projects.\
You are expected to have the skills and knowledge for these tasks, so step-by-step guides are not provided.\
Some Jooli, Inc. standards you should follow:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa360\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create all resources in the default region or zone, unless otherwise directed. The default region is\'a0
\f3 \cb5 REGION
\f1 \cb3 , and the default zone is\'a0
\f3 \cb5 ZONE
\f1 \cb3 .\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Naming normally uses the format\'a0
\f4\i team-resource
\f1\i0 ; for example, an instance could be named\'a0
\f0\b nucleus-webserver1
\f1\b0 .\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Allocate cost-effective resource sizes. Projects are monitored, and excessive resource use will result in the containing project's termination (and possibly yours), so plan carefully. This is the guidance the monitoring team is willing to share: unless directed, use\'a0
\f0\b e2-micro
\f1\b0 \'a0for small Linux VMs, and use\'a0
\f0\b e2-medium
\f1\b0 \'a0for Windows or other applications, such as Kubernetes nodes.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs48 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 Your challenge\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf4 As soon as you sit down at your desk and open your new laptop, you receive several requests from the Nucleus team. Read through each description, and then create the resources.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs60 \cf4 Task 1. Create a project jumphost instance\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf4 You will use this instance to perform maintenance for the project.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 Requirements:
\f1\b0 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Name the instance\'a0
\f5\b \cb5 Instance name
\f1\b0 \cb3 .\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create the instance in the\'a0
\f3 \cb5 ZONE
\f1 \cb3 \'a0zone.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Use an\'a0
\f4\i e2-micro
\f1\i0 \'a0machine type.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Use the default image type (Debian Linux).\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa640\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs60 \cf4 \cb3 Task 2. Set up an HTTP load balancer\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf4 You will serve the site via nginx web servers, but you want to ensure that the environment is fault-tolerant. Create an HTTP load balancer with a managed instance group of\'a0
\f0\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 2 nginx web servers
\f1\b0 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 . Use the following code to configure the web servers; the team will replace this with their own configuration later.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 cat << EOF > startup.sh\
#! /bin/bash\
apt-get update\
apt-get install -y nginx\
service nginx start\
sed -i -- 's/nginx/Google Cloud Platform - '"\\$HOSTNAME"'/' /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html\
EOF\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb6 \strokec2 Note:\'a0
\f6\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 There is a limit to the resources you are allowed to create in your project, so do not create more than 2 instances in your managed instance group. If you do, the lab might end and you might be banned.
\f1 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 You need to:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create an instance template. Don't use the default machine type. Make sure you specify\'a0
\f0\b e2-medium
\f1\b0 \'a0as the machine type.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a managed instance group based on the template.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a firewall rule named as\'a0
\f3 \cb5 Firewall rule
\f1 \cb3 \'a0to allow traffic (80/tcp).\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a health check.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a backend service and add your instance group as the backend to the backend service group with named port (http:80).\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a URL map, and target the HTTP proxy to route the incoming requests to the default backend service.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a target HTTP proxy to route requests to your URL map\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Create a forwarding rule.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb7 \strokec2 Note:
\f6\b0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \'a0You may need to wait for\'a0
\f3\fs30 \AppleTypeServices \cb8 5 to 7 minutes
\f6\fs32 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cb7 \'a0to get the score for this task.
\f1 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}